# AutoML

Nowadays, given the technological advances in the algorithms (such as deep learning) and hardware platforms (such as GPU), medical image analysis has become a key step in disease understanding, clinical diagnosis, and treatment planning. The sizes, shapes, and appearances of objects-of-interest (e.g., organs, bones, or tumors) in medical images can vary greatly across different anatomical structures. These semantic features are closely related to the severity of the disease. At the same time, variations in the imaging patterns related to pathologies, scanning protocols, and medical devices introduce a computational challenge for automated algorithms. Therefore, automated processing (e.g., segmentation) of object-of-interest is one of the most challenging tasks in medical image analysis. When facing with such challenges, most machine/deep learning models struggle to provide comprehensive solutions. Here we showcase the most recent AutoML techniques in medical imaging based on MONAI modules.

## DiNTS: Differentiable neural network topology search
Recently, neural architecture search (NAS) has been applied to automatically search high-performance networks for medical image segmentation. The NAS search space usually contains a network topology level (controlling connections among cells with different spatial scales) and a cell level (operations within each cell). Existing methods either require long searching time for large-scale 3D image datasets, or are limited to pre-defined topologies (such as U-shaped or single-path). In this work, we focus on three important aspects of NAS in 3D medical image segmentation: flexible multi-path network topology, high search efficiency, and budgeted GPU memory usage. A novel differentiable search framework is proposed to support fast gradient-based search within a highly flexible network topology search space. The discretization of the searched optimal continuous model in differentiable scheme may produce a sub-optimal final discrete model (discretization gap). Therefore, we propose a topology loss to alleviate this problem. In addition, the GPU memory usage for the searched 3D model is limited with budget constraints during search. The Differentiable Network Topology Search scheme (DiNTS) was evaluated on the Medical Segmentation Decathlon (MSD) challenge with state-of-the-art performance.
